README.md, before:

# Horiseon SEO

## Description: 

Updates to the webpage of marketing agency, Horiseon, enhancing accessibility/SEO

This update for the client, Horiseon Social Solution Service, Inc. is aimed at optimizing both the representation of the page in search engine results, and the user experience along accessiblity criteria. As a marketing agency that offers search engine optimization services to other businesses, and even embeds the acryonym SEO in the Horiseon name, the company felt it was imperative to display on its own web interface the same protocols for search engine optimization it recommends and implements for its clients.  

In dialog with the company's tech lead, it was agreed that the webpage update would focus on enhancements in 5 areas: 1. I would refactor the code so that the HTML was more transparent as to its meaning, in keeping with the evolution of HTML 5 toward the use of semantic elements 2. The page would follow an elegant sequential flow of structural logic independent of styling. 3. All image content would be enhanced by hidden description so that it was made intelligible to screen readers. 4. All the heading data would fall in sequential order and 5. A concise but thoroughly descriptive title would be given to the update. In the updated code, all HTML elements are semantic (as far as possible; there is no semantic alternative to span). Both the HTML and the style-sheet read well from top to bottom and are thoroughly annotated with comments. Alt descriptions of image content has been provided, where possible, and in the case of the hero image a hidden figcaption in CSS has done what an alt description in HTML would have done. The heart emoji and copyright symbol in the footer have also been labelled for accessibility by screen readers. Adjustments have been made to the heading data to so that the flow is sequential, and the h1-6 elements themselves have been used in diminishing order for ease of interpretation by assistive technology. Finally, I consider the page's title to be concise and descriptive. When considering the title I wished also to adjust the page's visible title, the company name "Horiseon" for colour contrast so that the acronym SEO stands out both semantically and visually.  For larger text the accessibility compliance standard for contrast is 3:1 and the recoloration of the header achieves this. The colours within the rest of the page were unproblematic from an accessibility standpoint. As the change in the page's color palette is the only visually discernable change to the page, I include a screenshot of before and after.    

Though beyond the scope of this project, the focus of which was accessibility with a view to search engine optimization, future updates might consider improving user accessibility by making the page responsive so that it can provide an optimal experience regardless of the device used. Some interactive features would also make the page more operable, understandable and robust. Also understandability would benefit from a copy-edit of the text content. Many of the terms used, for example, "inbound strategies for lead generation" might be unintelligible to someone without a formal background in business or marketing, or to users for whom English is not a first language. 

## Installation

N/A

## Usage

The page is deployed and ready for use on the World Wide Web. 

## Credits

Karla Wubbenhorst was the sole creator of this accessibility enhancement of the Horiseon company's exisiting webpage.  The original webpage was developed by Xamder Rapstine of Austin Texas http://www.rapstine.com, and George Yoo of Winter Springs, Florida https://www.linkedin.com/in/george-yoo/.  Web resources such as Stack Overflow and Mozilla Developer Network were consulted for help with topics such as how to format the header with navbar inline with h1, the current HTML 5 conventions re: the non-semantic element span, and the use of aria properties to render emojis intelligible by screen readers. I also checked color contrast using the contrast checker at https://webaim.org. 

## License

Licensed under the MIT license

___

Commit message:

edits to README code rationalization and change of title

README.md, after:

# Horiseon SEO

## Description: 

Updates to the webpage of marketing agency, Horiseon, enhancing accessibility/SEO

This update for the client, Horiseon Social Solution Service, Inc. is aimed at optimizing both the representation of the page in search engine results, and the user experience along accessiblity criteria. As a marketing agency that offers search engine optimization services to other businesses, and even embeds the acryonym SEO in the Horiseon name, the company felt it was imperative to display on its own web interface the same protocols for search engine optimization it recommends and implements for its clients.  

In dialog with the company's tech lead, it was agreed that the webpage update would focus on enhancements in 5 areas: 1. I would refactor the code so that the HTML was more transparent as to its meaning, in keeping with the evolution of HTML 5 toward the use of semantic elements 2. The page would follow an elegant sequential flow of structural logic independent of styling. 3. All image content would be enhanced by hidden description so that it was made intelligible to screen readers. 4. All the heading elements would fall in sequential order and 5. A concise but descriptive title would be given to the update. In the updated code, all HTML elements are semantic (as far as possible; there is no semantic alternative to span). Both the HTML and the style-sheet read well from top to bottom with some rationalization of the style rules where the three subsections of the showcase and the sidebar were previously coded in triplicate and there are comments throughout. Alt descriptions of image content has been provided, where possible, and in the case of the hero image a hidden figcaption in CSS has done what an alt description in HTML would have done. The heart emoji and copyright symbol in the footer have also been labelled for accessibility by screen readers. Adjustments have been made to the heading elements so that they flow from h1-h4 in descending order for the benefit of assistive technologies. Finally, I consider the page's title within the HTML head (HoriSEOn Web Marketing) to be concise and descriptive. When considering the title I wished also to adjust the page's visible title, the company name "Horiseon" for colour contrast so that the acronym SEO stands out both semantically and visually.  For larger text the accessibility compliance standard for contrast is 3:1 and the recoloration of the header achieves this. The colours within the rest of the page were unproblematic from an accessibility standpoint. As the change in the page's color palette is the only visually discernable change to the page, I include a screenshot of before and after.

![Comparison of the website before the update on the left with the after shot on the right](<Screenshot for Horiseon README.png>)

Though beyond the scope of this project, the focus of which was accessibility with a view to search engine optimization, future updates might consider improving user accessibility by making the page responsive, so that it can provide an optimal viewing experience regardless of the device used. Some interactive features would also make the page more operable, understandable and robust. Also understandability would benefit from a copy-edit of the text content. Many of the terms used, for example, "inbound strategies for lead generation," might be unintelligible to someone without a formal background in business or marketing, or to users for whom English is not a first language. 

## Installation

N/A

## Usage

The page is deployed and ready for use on the World Wide Web. 

## Credits

Karla Wubbenhorst was the sole creator of this accessibility enhancement of the Horiseon company's exisiting webpage.  The original webpage was developed by Xamder Rapstine of Austin Texas http://www.rapstine.com, and George Yoo of Winter Springs, Florida https://www.linkedin.com/in/george-yoo/.  Web resources such as Stack Overflow and Mozilla Developer Network were consulted for help with topics such as how to format the header with navbar inline with h1, the current HTML 5 conventions re: the non-semantic element span, and the use of aria properties to render emojis intelligible by screen readers. I also checked color contrast using the contrast checker at https://webaim.org. 

## License

Licensed under the MIT license

___
